---
layout: post
title:  Hope IV
song: Hope
album: Up
image: up.jpg
year: "1998"
date: 2021-03-29t12:00:02
tags: rem-project
category: music
desc: last hope
permalink: hope-4.html
video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTo7gRIpLDY
final_mix: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Et9QkM4rWoUPY-iKXSpv8W4Ne8U_J8OE/view?usp=sharing
---

### Killing Alligators
Today was the first day I experimented with pitch correction. Michael sings in a sustained lower register for most of this. I'm not as suited for it but used a touch of pitch correction for the first time. It can help things but should be used sparingly.

I'm a bit concerned with the mixes here since I'm only using the laptop speakers and headphones. No home speakers since I'm not at home.

### Final Tracks (20)
Vocals (3)
- Main vocal composited
- Main vocal doubled
- Background wilderness howl at end

Guitar (3)
- Acoustic throughout
- Power Chords (2)

Drum Synth (3)
- Robot part split into L/R pan (2)
- Kick / Snare 808

Synthesizer (9)
- Mid C Synth Buzzsaw Drone
- Lead Synth Motif
- Lead Synth Motif Low Note Separated
- Lead Synth Counterpoint (2)
- Fluty Twiddles
- Bass Synth (2)
- Angry Saw Ending

Midi Instruments (2)
- B3 Organ
- Piano

### Faithful Cover?
There really wan't going to be a cover here that would pass for the original. Synths and effects are so unique. This song is dripping with them in its DNA. Once I got the foundational parts sequenced, I really didn't go back to the original song track. Most of this is my interpretation givin what I have to work with.

### Learnings
- Pitch correction is compression for pitch
- Picking which parts were quantized and which ones aren't is also a major creative decision

### Next Up
Write last "At My Most Beautiful" post. Final mix went up today after "Hope"